Attached to this video you're going to find a file called AECOM 0 9 3 template.
So once again this has some file inside of it that's going to replace our current show dot J as file.
The only difference here is that I've added a bunch of additional each email some class names and whatnot
just to give us something looks a little bit better.
I'm going to extract that file again you can find a zip file attached to this video.
I'm going to extract the file.
I'll then open that file inside my code editor inside of here.
I can immediately see there is a ton of additional markup I'm going to select everything inside here.
Copy it.
Go to my old showed up j s file.
So here's what we're just working on two seconds ago.
I'm gonna select everything inside of here and delete it and then paste in the contents of the new file.
All right.
Let's say this and you go back over to the browser click refresh and that definitely looks a little
bit better.
You'll notice that I did a little bit of formatting over here.
I took the price said times the quantity of 2 and that gave us the result of thirty eight dollars for
that item so you can find the logic for that right inside of this template file right around here.
So these are the same properties that we were just working with in the last video.
So item dot product price.
The times that we see is really just a capital X..
And then next to that thing is the price times the quantity there is still a little bit of work that
we have to do on this template.
If you scroll down to the bottom you'll see a div that says total.
And then right after that is in each one with a dollar sign inside of it.
So we need to write here.
Display the total of all the items we have inside of our cart.
So we need to do a little bit of math.
We need to loop through all the items we need to take the price multiply by the quantity and then some.
All that stuff up and then print it out as the total.
So this time around not everything inside of the template has been implemented for us.
So to do this let's write out a little bit of logic at the top of this function.
We're going to iterate through all of our items and calculate the total of all the items inside of our
cart there's definitely many different ways we could write out this logic I'm going to show you two
different ways.
The first way is gonna be a very simple way of approaching this.
The second way is going to be a little bit more comp complicated using a reduced helper statement.
The first way we're going to do this is create a variable called Total Price and default it to 0 0 then
do another 4 of loop.
So I'll say 4 let item of items then inside of here will say total price plus equals.
So that saying just take the current value of total price and add in some additional amount that we're
going to calculate right here.
So the additional amount that we want to add in is going to be the item quantity times the price for
that item.
So it's gonna be item quantity times item not product not price
so now.
Total price.
We should be able to print out at the very bottom inside of that each one that we're just looking at.
So I'll go back down on the H1 with the dollar sign I'll put in a another dollar signs the second dollar
sign there is to say that we're about to do some string templating and then inside of it curly braces.
Total price all right.
Let's save this put back over refresh and there's our total price so that will be the thirty eight plus
thirty nine plus fifteen.
It's like I said there's more than one way to accomplish this total right here.
So using the for of loop is really simple and straightforward.
Another way that we could do this is by using a reduced statement instead.
Let's try the reduced format just as a little bit of practice.
I'm going to comment out the stuff we put together so we can keep it around for reference so we're gonna
write out some logic that's going to be just about identical to what we have right here.
Going to say concept.
Total price is items dot reduce.
Now remember how the reduce statement works.
It is very similar to a for each.
Or a map statement in that we're going to iterate over a list of things.
And for everything inside this array we're going to run this function right here.
The big difference with reduce is that it takes a second argument.
It's going to put in a second argument to reduce of zero then inside this function right here.
The first argument is not going to be the thing that we are iterating over.
So it's not going to be our item.
Instead it's going to be some variable that we usually referred to as a ACH or short for accumulator
or pre short for previous.
So the first time that this inner function runs it's going to take it the second argument we put in
right there and pass it in as the previous value then the second argument will be the thing that we
are actually iterating over.
So in this case our item then inside of our function we're going to return a value whatever we return
is going to be provided as the first argument to the next iteration through our items array so essentially
we just have a value that we're passing through or carrying through every time this function gets called
functionally it is very similar to the code we just wrote where we have some kind of accumulator variable
in this case up here we called it total price.
We defaulted its value to zero and we got access to that value every single time that our for loop ran.
So very similar structure right here with the reduced statement as well so inside of here we'll do it
return previous plus item dot quantity times item dot product dot price one thing that's really easy
to forget with a reduced statement is to actually return a value.
So we need to make sure that we are returning a value so that that value can be used as the previous
argument on the next iteration through our loop okay.
So this looks good.
Let's save this go back over and we're really just going to make sure that we still get ninety two right
there I can refresh and yep I definitely still get 90 to okay.
So this is looking pretty good so let's take a quick pause right here.
We just have one last big thing to take care of which is really the deletion of every item or each individual
item inside of our shopping cart.
So let's take care of that in just a moment.